---
layout: post
title: 'Review of CS 464 - Open Source Software'
date: '2023-11-27'
categories: coursework
---

I recently had the opportunity to take CS 464 Open Source Software as an eCampus student at Oregon State University. 
I liked this class so much that I decided to write a review about it.

### Course Structure

The course consisted of 4 short quizzes, weekly discussions, and a Final Portfolio assignment. 
One thing I enjoyed about the course structure is that it was minimal. 
The flexible requirements allowed me to delve deeper into whatever open-source project I wanted.

### Assignments

The assignments are mainly designed to make sure you are making progress toward your portfolio assignment and just generally interacting with open-source projects. 
Moreover, you had to submit a proposal beforehand for each assignment, which essentially was a draft.
The proposals did a great job at keeping me on track personally. 
I struggle with starting tasks, so having these checkpoints was invaluable.

### Discussions

The discussions served as additional check-ins, had some reading about open source, and let you explore open-source projects.

### Portfolio Project

For your portfolio project, you had to contribute a significant change to an open-source project. 
I decided to contribute to a project I already used called homepage. 
Homepage allows you to create dashboards for your homelab. 

One of the features that I like is that you can configure your dashboard from a docker-compose file. 
However, the docker integration lacked support to configure bookmarks from the compose file. 
I was able to write this feature, and I am hoping to get it merged in soon. 
You can see my pull request [here](https://github.com/gethomepage/homepage/pull/2367#issuecomment-1827150820).

### Conclusion

If you are looking for an excuse to contribute to open-source, this course is for you. 
I have made open-source contributions in the past, but I needed more structure to ensure I made more significant contributions. 
This class has reignited my passion for open-source, and I am very thankful I took it.
